Core 1 exam notes for review and practice test construction.
//------------------------------------------------------------//

    Section 1: Mobile Devices.
1.1 Laptop Hardware.
What is another way we can describe a laptop?
From a technician's perspective, laptops are highly specialized pieces of equipment with a specific form factor.
This makes the repair difficulty highly variable between manufacturers and more difficult in general.
People tend to specialize in a particular brand as they learn specific processes for repair.

Batteries - most are lithium ion or lithium-ion polymer and designed to be fully charged. However, over years you will need to replace battery as the capacity diminishes each charge.
TODO: What are other forms of batteries?
    How do these batteries work? 
    Li-ion batteries work by moving Lithium ions across an electrolyte between electrodes.
    The electrodes are made of lithium compounds (lithium cobalt oxide) at the cathode and carbon compounds (graphite) at the anode. 
    The electrolyte is made of organic carbonates and a separator (thin polymer film) keeps the electrodes physically apart.
    When charging the ions move from cathode to anode and embed in anode (intercalation).
    When discharging the reverse happens and the movements from anode to cathode generates the current of electricity to power our devices.
    High energy density means they store more energy for their size.
    No memory effect means they do not need to be fully discharged before recharging.
    Low self discharge means they lose charge on their own at a slower rate.
People may have spare batteries when traveling that can easily disconnect and connect for a fresh charge.

Keyboard - the most used component as it is our primary input.
It is easy to replace as it is connected to the laptop with a single ribbon cable.
It is common to connect an external keyboard via USB.
Due to the smaller form factor function keys are used to replace missing keys on larger keyboard.
The keycaps themselves are fragile and maintenance of these should be done with extra caution.

SO-DIMM - small outline dual in-line memory module is a common form factor for laptops and other mobile devices.
Some laptops allow the addition of memory modules (as above) while others do not.

Storage - can either be as a SSD or a hard drive (magnetic disk)
Older laptops may have a 2 1/2 inch form factor magnetic disk while newer laptops likely have a solid state drive (no moving parts).
M.2 interface is used on a SSD to fit more storage in a smaller space due to its more compact size.
TODO: How do they work?
Replacing hard drives with SSDs is common due to benefits of performance. It is common to use drive imaging/cloning to move OS over.

Wireless - newer laptops have 802.11 and Bluetooth built-in, older laptops may still include Mini PCI or Mini PCI express.
Wireless cards are modular for easy replacement and come as 802.11, WAN (cellular), PAN (Bluetooth).

Authentication - Generally in newer laptops there are 2 main options for authentication including a password OR biometrics or a possible combination of the two.
Biometrics includes the Software in the OS that determines its you plus the hardware (camera, fingerprint reader) examples include Window's Hello Face, Hello fingerprint

    Terminology:
    Form Factor - the shape of equipment expressed in 3d dimensions (h/w/d) or in terms of an industry standard item.
    CompTIA - Computer Technology Industry Association.



1.2 Laptop Displays.
Many laptops use an LCD display because it is lightweight and use little power. They are also relatively inexpensive to make.
What are disadvantages of LCD displays? - requires backlight.
There are 3 different technologies for LCD displays: 
1. Twisted Nematic LCD. High response times for fast graphical changes. Bad viewing angles.
2. In Plane Switching LCD. Great color representation. More expensive.
3. Vertical alignment LCD. Middle point between the other 2 with great color and fast response times.

OLED displays - organic light emitting diode display has no backlight. The organic material emits light when provided with a current.
Light and thin and provide good color representation.
Don't forget that displays on laptops are often the highest above ground component making it a target for network antennas.

backlight - since LCDs need a backlight the 2 most common are LEDs but on older laptops it could be CCFL.
Note that if using CCFL you will require an inverter as it runs on AC power.

Digitizer - in laptops that allow stylus or touch screen, the finger / pen serves as the input and is transduced to digital signals the computer can use.

    TODO: Terminology:
    LCD display - Liquid crystal display is a 
    CCFL - Cold cathode fluorescent lamp is a type of backlight 
    LED - Light emitting diode



1.3 Mobile Device Configuration.
There are 2 primary types of connections in mobile devices wired and wireless.
The most common wired connection is the USB. It is designed for high speed communication. Now the USB-C connector is common.
As a technician, it is important to be aware of the different types of cables that are available and what type of data they transmit.
A legacy cable that may still be used is the DB-9 connector.
A newer form of wireless communication is NFC. It is used during phone payments in stores or unlocking doors with ID cards.
Another common form of wireless communication is Bluetooth - used for wireless headphones or connecting to vehicles.
Lastly, when public access points may not be available a phone hotspot can enable 802.11 connections through the mobile phone using the provider's network.

Mobile device accessories that can be connected:
stylus - a capacitive pen that allows for writing and interacting directly with a touchscreen. Different but similar to an active stylus.
external drawing pad - an external digitizer that can take stylus inputs
trackpad - replaces an external mouse on a laptop compact and travel friendly.
headsets - can be connected with a wire (USB, TRRS connection) or it can be wireless (Bluetooth).
external speakers - laptops and mobile devices generally have smaller speakers and lower sound quality and volume.
webcam - mobile devices have built-in cameras for video and multimedia communication.
docking station - setup preconfigured external connections in a single docking station that can be plugged directly to your laptop.



    Terminology:
    USB - Universal serial bus
    NFC - Near field communication



1.4 Mobile Device Connectivity.
Mobile phones are on the cellular network (cellular because the geography is broken in cells or sections).
Original cell networks were 2G networks. They had 2 global standards: GSM and CDMA. Great for voice communication but limited support for data transfer.
The GSM network was 90% market dominant back then and allowed all device configurations to be saved on the SIM of device (swap SIM between devices and keep number).
    Multiplexing was used to balance time between customers.
Instead, CDMA (USA only Verizon Sprint) allowed multiple people to communicate at the same time by using and filtering out codes between callers.

In 1998, 3G standard introduced. More capability with data sent at higher speeds. (GPS, tv, streaming, vod).
The 2 standard model became a problem at this time for those switching providers or networks in area - LTE (4G) was introduced to converge these standards.
Much higher speeds of hundreds of MB/s.
In 2020, 5G networks introduced for speeds of 100-900 megabits/s. Eventually, these networks will perform at 10 gigabits/s.
By increasing the speed of our 5G networks we will extend the functionality of our devices especially IoT devices.
Some of our mobile device updates are for the OS like the PRL update.

Most common connection for mobile phones is Bluetooth. Pairing process only happens the first time then they automatically pair when together.
First step is enabling Bluetooth on devices and setting them to discoverable mode.
In discoverable mode the device will appear on a list for selection - a pin/pw may be needed and the devices are now connected.
GPS uses 4 / 30 global satellites to calculate our position. It does so by timing the signals of the different satellites. Local Wifi and data towers are also used for location.

MDM is a system for central administration and management of mobile devices - great for enterprises.
All configurations, apps, and settings are managed at a single console. A work and personal partition may be required.
It is great for security and updates. Allows full control over company devices.

A new device has some things preconfigured but others like email, cloud syncing and others may not be. 
Usually some authentication user/pw will enable email and cloud syncing.

    Terminology:
    GSM - Global System for Mobile Communications
    CDMA - Code Division Multiple Access
    SIM - Subscriber identity module 
    Multiplexing - 
    LTE - Long term evolution is a cellular network standard that combines
    EDGE - Enhanaced Data Rates for GSM Evolution
    PRL - Preferred roaming list allows your phone to understand where all the appropriate towers for the network are.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------/

    Section 2: Networking.
2.1 Ports and Protocols.
There are different types of networks including wireless, DSL, cable modem, ethernet.
IP is designed to move efficiently between one point and another - IP address. (like a truck driving over the road). Has IP headers and IP payload.
The payload could have any data inside it (encapsulation), it commonly has TCP and UDP which themselves have their headers and payloads (OSI layer 4).
UTP and TCP provide multiplexing capabilities.
TCP -> formal process for set up and tear down of data flow (reliable delivery), ensures data has been received. Reorder mgs, throttling feature, retransmission feature. (HTTPS, SSH)
UDP -> connectionless flow simply send data from one point to another (fast) referred to as unreliable delivery. Associated with real time communication (phone call, DHCP, TFTP)
The port determines the final important peice of network traffic - which application on the server is going to use the data (which room in the house is the box going in).
Common (non-ephemeral) port numbers to know: 80, 443, 25, 123 (0-1023). ephemeral ports on source device uses range 1023-65535

ports are important for establishing sessions between devices but also for firewalls.
FTP TCP port 20, TCP port 21
SSH TCP port 22
Telnet TCP port 23
SMTP TCP port 25
DNS UDP port 53
DHCP UDP port 67 UDP port 68
HTTP TCP port 80
HTTPS TCP port 443
POP3 TCP port 110
IMAP4 TCP 143
SMB (Windows) TCP port 445
NetBIOS (Older Windows) UDP port 137 TCP port 139
SNMP UDP port 161 UDP port 162
LDAP TCP port 389
RDP TCP port 3389

    Terminology:
    IP - Internet protocol explains headers, frames, trailers.
    TCP - Transmission control protocol or connection oriented protocol.
    UDP - User Datagram protocol
    DHCP - Dynamic host configuration protocol is the automated system used to assign IP address to devices on a network.
    TFTP - Trivial file transfer protocol
    FTP - File transfer protocol
    SSH - Secure Shell
    Telnet - 
    SMTP - Simple mail transfer protocol
    DNS - Domain name system
    SMB - Server message block (CIFS)
    SNMP - Simple network management protocol evolution of the 3 versions.
    LDAP - Lightweight directory access protocol
    RDP - Remote desktop protocol is the Window's feature that allows you to remotely control a windows machine.


2.2 Network Devices.
switches are simple network devices that connect networks. SOHO routers have multiple functionality switches, routers, wireless access point.
A router forwards traffic between different IP subnets.
At what layer of OSI do these devices work? Switches, routers, WAP?



    Terminology:
    ASIC - Application specific integrated circuit- purpose?


Outlines of the major sections.
Deadlines for presentations.

2.3 Wireless Networks.


2.4 Network Services.


2.5 Network Configurations.


2.6 Network Connections.


2.7 Internet Connections.


2.8 Network Tools.


//------------------------------------------------------------------//

    Section 3: Hardware

3.1 Cables and Adapters.


3.2 Memory.


3.3. Storage Devices.


3.4 Motherboards.


3.5 Power. 



3.6 Multifunction Devices.


3.7 Printers.  


//--------------------------------------------------------------------------------//

    Section 4: Virtualization and Cloud Computing.

4.1 Cloud Computing.


4.2 Client-side Virtualization.


//--------------------------------------------------------------------------------//

    Section 5: Hardware and Network Troubleshooting.

5.1 Troubleshooting 


5.2 Troubleshooting Computer Hardware.


5.3 Troubleshooting Storage.


5.4 Troubleshooting Displays.


5.5 Troubleshooting Mobile Devices.


5.6 Troubleshooting Printers.

5.7 Troubleshooting Networks. 


///----------------------------------------------------------------------------------///

220-1102 A+

    Section 1: Operating Systems

1.1 Microsoft Windows


1.2 Windows Commands


1.3 Windows OS


1.4 Windows Control Panel


1.5 Windows settings


1.6 Windows Networking


1.7 Application Installation and Configuration


1.8 Operating System types


1.9 Installing Operating Systems


1.10 macOs


1.11 Linux


/--------------------------------------------------------------//

    Section 2: Security.

2.1 Security Measures


2.2 Wireless Security


2.3 Malware


2.4 Social Engineering


2.5 Windows Security


2.6 Security Best Practices


2.7 Mobile Device Security



2.8 Data Destruction



2.9 SOHO Networks.


2.10 Browser Security


//-------------------------------------------------------------------//

    Section 3: Software Troubleshooting

3.1 this